Reels this, reels that, post more reels.
The reality is reels are overhyped. Yes,
reels can help you get more views, reels
can go viral, but guess what? Everyone's
been posting so many reels that
carousels have been totally forgotten
about and carousels are arguably just as
powerful for reaching a new audience,
serving your existing audience, [music]
and increasing your engagement. And so,
in today's episode, I'm going to be
sharing with you eight of viral carousel
ideas that you can recreate your own
versions of. I'm not going to waste any
time in today's episode, we're going to
get right to it, but before we do, I'm
going to ask you to consider hitting
that subscribe button because every
single week I put out some sort of video
helping you grow on social media,
helping you get more views on Instagram,
helping you go viral on TikTok, coming
up with post ideas, letting you know
about the latest strategies and updates,
and all you got to do is hit that
subscribe button. Totally free. But,
let's get into it. The first viral
carousel idea that I have for you is the
what you see versus what you don't
carousel. This carousel is similar to
carousels that I've talked about in the
past where you are comparing or
contrasting two things in each slide.
This sort of dynamic visual gives the
average viewer more to look at. When
we're scrolling through Instagram and
when we're looking at carousels, we're
used to only having to look at one thing
per slide. But, when the slide is cut in
half or when we're comparing a before
and after, this versus that, it gives
our brain more visual input. It kind of
feels more like a game to kind of
compare the two images. And what we're
going to specifically be doing in the
what you see versus what you don't
carousel style is splitting the image in
half, making one image in color and the
other half of the image in black and
white. And this carousel could easily
fit into any niche because no matter
what industry you are in, there are
likely things that everyone sees that
are outward-facing that seem positive,
happy, successful, and there's a lot
that goes on behind the scenes. There's
plenty of work that you do that people
don't realize gets done. There's plenty
of challenges and struggles that you
face that people don't even realize. And
so, this carousel is a great opportunity
to A, show people a behind-the-scenes,
B, allow them to generate trust with
you, and C, allow people to really
connect and relate with you on a deeper
level. The more honest and authentic you
can get with this style of carousel, the
more viral potential it has and the
greater people will really feel
connected with you and feel seen because
of this carousel. Carousel idea number
two is the celebrity quotes carousel.
These style of carousels work really
well because they are borrowing someone
else's credibility, status, or fame. The
reality is, like it or not, people pay
more attention when celebrities say
things. And I'm willing to bet that
there is a celebrity who has said
something about your niche. No matter
how niche down you get, no matter how
specific of an industry, a subcategory
within a subcategory you post about on
Instagram, I bet there is some celebrity
out there who has talked about that or
has talked about something similar
enough that you can find a way to
creatively relate it back to your niche.
Some of my most viral carousels in the
history of my Instagram are when a
celebrity makes a quote about creativity
or the creative process or they make a
quote about being cringe or overcoming
perfectionism. Even though these things
don't directly relate to growing on
Instagram, which is most of what I post
about, I can find ways to relate these
topics back to growing and posting on
Instagram, and thus these are
potentially very viral. I will say the
more niche you try to find a quote for,
the harder it will be. So, I typically
find ChatGPT to be a very helpful
research tool for finding quotes from
celebrities that relate to pretty much
any topic. In terms of formatting for
these celebrity quotes carousels, I
wouldn't suggest doing the kind of
outdated, bland, boring professional
headshot of a celebrity with some
cursive, fancy font quote next to their
head. And I would instead format it
almost as if it's breaking news. And
typically on Instagram, the breaking
news format is you have a photo of
someone, in this case, the celebrity who
said the quote, but it's not like the
generic stock image headshot photo, it's
a photo of them kind of in the act of
saying the quote. So, if you can,
instead of grabbing an image of a
celebrity from the red carpet, grab an
image of them from an actual interview
so that it looks like they're talking.
And then, on the bottom half of the
screen, I put a little black bar and
then a fade-to-black kind of
transparency, so it's kind of like, you
know, ombre effects, gradient effects, I
guess is the way to say it, from the
black bar into the actual image of the
celebrity saying the quote. And then,
you put the quote in big, bold,
easy-to-read text down at the bottom. As
someone who cooks about 95% of their
meals at home, and no, that's not an
exaggeration, usually the only meal that
T and I eat out each week is our sushi
Saturday. What we eat, what we prepare,
it matters a lot to us. And that's why
I'm so excited to introduce you to our
newest sponsor, HelloFresh. HelloFresh
allows you to choose between more than
100 recipes every single week, including
cuisines from all around the world and
bigger portions that satisfy everyone.
Over 35 of those weekly recipes are
high-protein recipes, which fires me up,
and it allows me to feel great because I
know that I'm eating wholesome
ingredients like sustainably sourced
seafood and 100% antibiotic and
hormone-free chicken. And of course,
most important of all is how it tastes,
and let me tell you, it actually tastes
really good. This helps me be a better
business owner because I'm able to eat
meals that taste good and help me feel
satisfied. I don't have to spend as much
time thinking or prepping each meal, and
I can make sure that I'm hitting my
protein goals in the process. Go to
hellofresh.com/byt10fm
to get 10 free meals plus a freeze
willing knife, which is a $144.99
value on your third box. This offer is
only valid while supplies last. Free
meals applied at discount on your first
box for new subscribers only and varies
by plan. Idea number three is the your
birth month equals your blank. This is
not necessarily new. These are super
popular and they've been around pretty
much since the dawn of Instagram, but
it's something that I really only see
meme pages or really popular Instagram
accounts doing, and I don't see enough
of the average Joes like you and I
actually taking advantage of. For this
style of carousel, you basically just
finish the second sentence with
something that relates to your niche.
So, your birth month equals the kind of
content creator you are. Your birth
month equals your rock climbing habits.
Your birth month equals the kind of cake
that you bake. And to be honest, these
carousels don't have a super strong like
educational value or a super big like
point that is being made because it's
just kind of a game. It's kind of like a
guessing game to see like, "Ooh, hey, my
birthday's in July. Let me swipe to July
and see what I got. Oh, hey, my wife's
birthday's in March. Let me see what
March is." It's like those online
quizzes that you would take in the early
2000s to figure out which Hogwarts house
you're in. It's not really all that
serious, but our human nature and
psychology makes us curious to figure
out what we are even if there's no basis
to it. So, for this one, have a little
bit of fun with it. And if you want to
use ChatGPT to create the images for
each month, you could totally do that.
Now, those first three carousel ideas
were on the easier side to actually
create. This fourth carousel idea is
not. The fourth carousel idea is what
I'm going to call the mixed media
carousel, and these ones can get real
creative. Most carousels that you see
when you scroll through Instagram are
generic and they look like the pamphlets
that you get at the hospital. They're
filled with clip art, stock images, and
the graphic design feels just kind of
stale. And I would be willing to bet
that over 95, if not 99% of the
carousels that you see on your Instagram
are just still images. Even if it's
super dynamically edited and really
visually interesting, it's usually just
a still image. What this carousel idea
does differently is it combines still
images with a cutout and then layers
that on top of a moving video that
relates to the image. If you're in
something like the real estate niche or
the interior design or anything related
to travel or exploring or if you're a
photographer, videographer, or a wedding
creator, this kind of carousel would
absolutely crush for you. If you're
someone who's just an online educator
like myself whose content doesn't really
interact with nature or the real world
or photography all that much, then it
wouldn't be as applicable, but if you do
interact with nature, if you do ever go
out, if you're a hiker, if you're
someone who does outdoor content
creation, this will absolutely crush for
you, and it's actually not that hard to
create. Let me show you. To achieve the
mixed media carousel effect, what you're
going to need is, of course, mixed
media. So, that means a photo and a
video. For this example right here, I've
chosen a random background video of some
sunset while I was on some boat or
something. And then, for the foreground
photo, I just used a photo of myself
pointing at the background. Now, of
course, this won't look as cool because
these two photos weren't taken at the
same time or at the same place, but even
with these two very different mixed
media components, it still creates a
pretty engaging and unique image that
can be put into the final carousel. In
order to achieve this effect, I will
show you how I did it. First of all, in
Canva, I just pulled up a video that was
the original background video, the
sunset on the boat. I made sure that it
filled up the entire screen, and then I
trimmed off the very end of the video.
Space it a little bit better so that I
have more space up here in the sky.
Then, I grabbed a photo of myself.
And for the sake of this example, I will
grab a very juxtaposed image with me
snowboarding, and I will just use the
background remover tool up here in the
upper left.
And yes, this is a pro Canva feature,
but as you can see, it does a great job
of removing the background. I can drag
this to make it a little bit larger and
fill the full screen. Maybe I'll put
myself right there so I'm not quite
blocking the sun. And then, if I wanted
to, I could add additional elements like
text or any additional cutout images on
top. Carousel idea number five is the
blurry reveal carousel, and it relies on
a little trick that we've talked about
in some of our previous carousel idea
episodes where if the viewer holds their
finger down on those little dots at the
bottom, they can actually drag their
finger to the right and the left, and it
will quickly flip through the carousel
kind of like flip book style, and it
will make a seamless transition between
each slide. Most people when they're
consuming carousels just kind of swipe
on through, but if you encourage your
audience to hold their finger down and
drag back and forth, it can actually
create some really cool effects. And
like I just mentioned, I have done some
previous carousel idea episodes. I think
this is actually the third or fourth
iteration of carousel ideas. So, I'll
link up a few more of those in the
description below, and I'll put them
somewhere on the screen as well right
now. Because if you haven't watched
those already, there are some really
creative carousel ideas in those
episodes as well. But, back to the
current one at hand, basically each
image in the carousel is getting
slightly less and less blurry. And this
is a really creative way that you could
reveal something like a new logo, a
product that you're launching, a sale, a
discount code, an image that you kind of
want to create some mystique around.
Basically, anything that would benefit
from having a grand reveal and have
people anticipate the launch of, this
would work really well for. And this is
also something that is relatively simple
and easy to create in just Canva. Let me
show you. For this blurry reveal
carousel, it's actually very easy to do.
Again, this would work best if you had
some sort of physical location or
physical product, but it can work for
basically anything that you want to
reveal. All you have to do is start by
pulling the image into Canva, and then
click on this edit button right here.
And then in the effects category down
here in the bottom left, you're going to
go to the one that says blur.
Then, just make sure that you select
whole image up here in the top left, and
then set the intensity on the first one
to be 100 so that it's super blurry.
After that, you can press the back or
the X, and you'll see it will create a
super blurry image. Then, just hit the
duplicate page button right here in the
upper right. Click on the image again.
Once again, click edit, and then click
on the blur button, and then just turn
it down. Basically, the more
significantly that you turn it down
between each image, the more images
there will be. So, if I turn it down to
50% in this image, well then by image
three, it'll be all the way at zero, and
thus the carousel will only be three
images long. Ideally, I would have it
set to maybe like 90% for the second
image.
Then, I'll close it. I'll duplicate the
page once again, click it, I'll click
edit, I will click the blur button, and
then for this one, I'll turn it down to
80. So, for you math whizzes out there,
if I'm subtracting 10 from the blur
percentage on each time, that means that
we will have 10 total slides, and we
will repeat this process basically all
the way until we get to a blur of zero.
And then, when we put these all together
in one giant export in one carousel,
people will be able to slide their
finger through the entire carousel and
transition seamlessly from the blurred
image to the crystal clear image. Are
you ready to take your business's
marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo,
the all-in-one marketing and CRM
platform that's designed to help you
connect with customers, boost
engagement, and grow your business
smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all
of your customer interactions in one
place. Nurture leads with their built-in
CRM, reach your audience through email
and SMS, and keep them coming back with
powerful automations. But, here's where
it gets really exciting. Aura, Brevo's
AI assistant. Aura helps you craft
smarter campaigns by suggesting
personalized content, optimizing send
times, and even analyzing performance
data to improve your strategy in real
time. It's like having a marketing
expert on your team who works 24/7. And
of course, Brevo also offers advanced
analytics, seamless integrations, and
AI-driven personalization. Everything
that you need to create multi-channel
campaigns that hit the mark every single
time. Get started for free today, or use
code tribe50 to save 50% off their
starter and standard plans for the first
3 months of the annual subscription.
Just head to www.brevo.com/tribe
and take your marketing further with
Brevo and Aura. Carousel idea number six
is the this exists carousel. Basically,
you want to grab a photo of yourself in
a cool environment, like on a hike, at
the top of a mountain, in front of a big
ocean. Basically, any photo that would
remind us of the bigger picture and the
perspective that we need to have. And
like I said, ideally, you would be in
the picture, or you would be the one who
has taken the picture, but I guess
theoretically, if you don't have any
photos of yourself in impressive
environments, or if you haven't taken
any cool photos of the ocean recently,
then you could use some sort of stock
images for this. But, just make sure
that they're not like generic, overused,
cookie-cutter stock images. Make sure
that they're actually the images that
are visually impressive. And basically,
each slide has text that says, "This
exists and dot dot dot." And after the
word and, you insert something that is a
common source of stress, frustration,
worry, concern, doubt in your niche. So,
you could say, "This exists and I'm
worried about my waist size. This exists
and I'm worried about keeping up with
fashion trends. This exists and I'm
worried if I have the coolest new pair
of shoes. This exists and I'm worried
about how many likes I get on Instagram.
This exists and I'm worried about my
overbaked cake. This exists and I'm
worried about keeping up with the pro
rock climber at my gym." And while this
trend usually uses grand, beautiful
photos of the Earth, it doesn't have to
just be for travel creators or outdoor
vloggers or anything like that. You
don't have to be in an outdoor-related
niche in order to use this trend. Idea
number seven is day in the life
carousels. Now, day in the life vlogs
have become super popular, and I've seen
a ton of different styles and
iterations, but I haven't seen very many
people do day in the life carousels. I
have seen people do, "Here's what my
morning routine looks like as a
seven-figure entrepreneur," and then
they talk about their ice baths and
whatever. But, for this specific style
of carousel, you're going to actually
use screenshots from your phone's
calendar. And then you have one of two
options as to how you can use these
screenshots. Option number one is to
take a photo that represents what you're
doing from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m., let's
say. And then you're going to include
the screenshot as an overlay to kind of
describe what you're doing in the photo
in the background. And then you're going
to repeat this from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00
a.m., etc. etc., taking people through a
day in your life, or what your perfect
day looks like, or even just what your
normal Thursday looks like. The other
way that you can do this is to flip
which photo is in the background and the
foreground, so that in the background is
your day's calendar, so the people can
kind of see a screenshot of what you're
doing, what's on the calendar from 7:00
a.m. to 8:00 a.m., and then in the
foreground, kind of overlaid on top of
that screenshot, is a little photo of
you doing that thing. Let me show you
how. For this next carousel, as I
mentioned, the day in the life carousel,
we can do one of two ways. We can either
put a background image in the
background, and then put the event, if
you will, on top of it, or vice versa.
For this first example, let's grab this
background image of myself.
I'll drag it to make it full screen.
And then I'll go to my calendar, and I
will just make an event that is that
event that I'm doing in that moment in
the day in the life. So, for this
example, I'll put in something like
snowboarding, and then I will just take
a screenshot of it, just like that.
Then, I will go back to Canva. I will
drag the image in. And then once it
uploads, I can just click on it and put
it on top of the image like so. Again,
like I said, you can do the opposite, so
you can start with the image of the
actual calendar. So, I'll begin by
taking a screenshot of the calendar, but
I'll take it a little bit wider so that
I have more space on the image, like so.
Again, I will drag that into Canva.
Then, I will set the calendar image as
the background image, as you can see.
And I will grab the photo of me doing
the event to put it into the foreground,
like so.
For the last few years, I've been using
Notion to basically organize my entire
life. It's so much more than just a
to-do list app. It's truly a one-stop
shop for organizing any area of your
life or business. And it's not just
great at organization, it's also great
at automations as well. There's so many
complex things that you can do and build
that can happen automatically and
instantly within Notion. And now, for
the first time, they are introducing
Notion AI agents. The new Notion custom
agents will allow you to automatically
perform advanced tasks without you even
having to lift a finger. For example, I
built a Notion custom agent that
automatically pulls the link to any reel
that I have posted, and then it pulls
out the text that I say or the text on
the screen in the first few seconds of
the reel. Basically, it pulls out my
hook. And then it's able to look at how
that post performed and compare it to
the hook, which allows me to see which
hooks are actually working, so that I
can reuse them and tweak them for future
reels. Notion is an AI-powered connected
workspace for teams. Notion brings all
of your notes, docs, and projects into
one space that just works. It's
seamless, flexible, powerful, and with
AI built-in, you spend less time
switching between different apps and
tools, and more time creating great
work. Now, with Notion's custom agents,
busywork that used to take hours, or
let's be honest, didn't really get done
at all, runs itself. The easiest way to
think about the difference between a
custom agent and normal AI is that
normal AI requires you as the human to
prompt it, but custom agents work for
you 24/7 behind the scenes without you
having to lift a finger. But, don't just
take my word for it. Notion is used by
more than half of Fortune 500 companies
and some of the fastest-growing
companies in the world, like OpenAI, the
company behind ChatGPT. Try custom
agents now at notion.com/byt.
That's all lowercase, notion n o t i o n
dot com forward slash b y t. To try
custom agents today, and when you use my
link, you're supporting our show. Again,
notion.com/byt.
And then the eighth and final carousel
idea is the one that looks maybe the
most unique, and it can be applied to
both carousels and just normal photos.
And I will say, this does probably
require you to have an iPhone or the
latest iPhone in order to make this
effect happen, but I'm sure it could be
done through some sort of third-party
editing software. I'm just not sure
which editing software that would be.
But, carousel idea number eight is what
I'm going to call the gyroscope
carousel. And according to Google, a
gyroscope is a device that measures or
maintains orientation and angular
velocity using the principle of
conservation of angular momentum.
That is an absolute flipping mouthful. I
promise it won't be that hard to make.
But, as you can see by the examples on
the screen, this carousel would be
perfect for anyone who has a physical
product. So, if you're a part of a
direct sales company, or you have merch,
or you really you have any sort of
physical product that you are selling,
or even if you're somebody who doesn't
necessarily sell a physical product, but
you interact quite often with physical
products in your niche, like let's say
you are a cake baker, well then you're
going to interact with cakes and a cake
knife and an icing pipette, is that the
right word? Or if you're a fashion
creator, you might not necessarily sell
the clothes that you are styling, but
you are interacting heavily with the
physical good that is the clothing. And
so this style of carousel would
absolutely work for you. Creating this
style carousel is really only two steps.
Step number one is you want to take a
photo of yourself, preferably on the
wide angle lens and kind of from a
higher up angle. Although, if you did a
normal angle lens and you did a little
bit lower, it would still work, but it
just it looks better when it's wide
angle and when it's kind of a top-down
look. And then using whichever editing
tool you like, you want to add the
physical products into the space around
you. So, you can use the cutout feature
in Canva, you can use the cutout feature
on your Instagram camera roll and then
paste the cutout images onto your photo
right on Instagram stories. You could
use Adobe Photoshop. There are a lot of
different ways that you can achieve
this, but that's really step one. Is you
just want to get this image of yourself
with the products kind of around you in
space. For this final gyroscope
carousel, I'm going to show you how to
do it entirely from your phone's camera
roll. We're going to start by going to
uploads down here in the bottom right of
Canva, and I'm going to pull up a photo
of myself that I'm going to use as the
background. For this one, I'm going to
again go with one of these snowboarding
photos.
Then I'm going to add some snowboards in
this case to the foreground. So, I have
some photos here. I'll remove the
background and then because I don't want
to see the top and bottom of the
snowboard, I will crop the photo so that
it's just the bottom.
And then I'll just kind of play around
with the positioning of them, something
like this.
And I'll repeat this process for each of
the snowboards that I have. You can do
this with each of the different products
that you wanted to show off, each of the
different physical goods that you're
selling, or whatever it is that you want
to use for this gyroscope effect.
Then once you're done, just save it to
your device.
Then here we are viewing it in my camera
roll. Once again, this is being done on
the latest iOS operating system. All I'm
going to do is tap on this little button
in the top right, right below those
three dots, and then it will analyze the
space and put it in this sort of like 3D
mode. And then all you have to do to
achieve the effect is move your phone
around, tilting it back and forth, up
and down, and kind of rotating it. And
while you're doing that, do a screen
recording, which I'm already doing a
screen recording to show you what I'm
doing, so I can't do it double. But
essentially, just do a screen recording
and it will record this little effect.
Then once you're done doing this effect
for a few seconds, stop the screen
recording. I'll show you what to do
next.
So, here is my screen recording. All I'm
going to do is tap the edit button in
the bottom right and then trim the video
to make sure that the moment where I am
actually starting and stopping the
screen recording isn't in the video. And
then before I hit save, I will hit the
crop button in the bottom right and I
will just crop out the black area, just
like so.
Hit done, save video, and as you can
see, now when I play it, it creates a
rectangular image that I could put into
a carousel of me doing this gyroscope
effect. Super cool, super unique. At the
end of my last carousel idea videos, I
shouted out one of my favorite carousel
creators, @byooob,
who creates awesome, inspiring
carousels. Definitely check them out,
super creative. But in addition to them,
I also want to shout out @teresa.notes,
who creates some super cool,
interactive, whimsical, as she likes to
call them, carousels that are dynamic
and unique and just super creative. So,
definitely check her out as well if you
want some more inspiration. Thank you so
much for watching today and as always,
happy networking.
>> [music]